Hello students and welcome in this lecture we're going to talk about the Linux wine comment which is
one of the most important and much use command and Linux systems fine commands used to search and locate
lists to files and directories based on conditions that use this file of files that match the arguments
fine can be used in a variety of conditions like you can find files permissions by users by groups by
file type by date by size and you can use other criteria.
Also So we log into our Linux machine and we're going to use some examples.
So one of the things that you can do I haven't discussed that yet.
There's a thing there's a help feature clinics in all standard Linux machines which is called manual
pages or man pages.
So you need to look up information that you're not sure about.
You can type mad.
And then the command that you're looking for like in my case or look up find and Ill give you pages
after pages of depending on how intense that command and how much detail it needs.
But it's got quite a bit of detail on the syntax and the use of the find command.
So going into the details of this right now will probably be too much will be overkill because right
now you're just going on a flight find command.
Just type 2 to get out of it.
But I wanted to show that feature of Linux.
Any time you have any confusion instead of going to Google you can just type in man for that command.
So we'll start off with a very simple example.
The reason I log in as root is when you're writing a file command.
If you log it as a non-root user and you're searching through your entire system that you're going to
be a lot of file file systems a lot of directories that go on route user would not have access to.
They can't even see what's in there.
So you're going to get a lot of permission denied.
If you want to read the fine command as a regular user.
So that's why it's a good idea to run a fine command as root user so that way it will go through each
and every directory and sub directory and get you the output that you're looking for.
So suppose in the root directory I know when you have the backslash that that's also called the root
directory.
So on the root directory right.
No let's see what I have in here.
OK.
These are like the general files.
There are a couple of files that I have created.
So what I'm going to do is create a clone of called touch test.
TIA XTi pretext just created that.
Now we're going to find it.
See if my system can find it fine.
This is the syntax doc means you start from the current directory where I am right on the present working
directory.
Then you type in Dasch name kik name of the file that's to follow.
Test the test doc XTi.
Now since I only have one file that should give me the output of that one file that I just created.
Well I created one before which is under Larry.
So it's on both of a test doc TXI.
OK.
So that's how simple it is.
Just you need to remember the syntax of it and if you forget just look up many pages.
So in this case we use the dot to tell the system to start finding from our current directory.
But what if I want to specify a particular directory.
OK so now what I've done is I want to slash hole that is still owned by root and I created a file there
which is called test to the test.
OK so I'm going to use the same fine commands this time but instead of using the dot on the specifying
the actual directory which is slash home dash name of the file and I'm going to call it test to test
you.
We'll see if our system will find it.
And yes he did find it and give you the exact part of where that file is located.
So right now I'm using very simple example whatever I'm trying to fight it gets found right away and
there's only one instance of it at work.
If you are on a server which has been up for a while doing a lot of stuff then you're going to have
several instances of that file probably at different locations and your system is going to take a while
too.
Might take me a while.
I mean could take probably 30 seconds or a minute depending on how much stuff you have or how much the
system has to go through in order to get you the right file that you're looking for.
But right now it's very quick for us because it's a test machine and I don't have too much installing
it right now.
OK.
One more example before we finished that discussion of box fight is we want to fight all the empty files.
So I remember how to find out where we are currently.
You do present working directory r p w d enter.
So I'm in slash T P right.
So I mean the root directory and the subject is T.M..
Anything that you don't want to keep for a long time in Linux just make it a habit of putting in TMB
because you can you can remember to remove the furnace but you're done with it.
So what I've done I use the touch commit have and then I've created empty
empty want and empty to an empty three.
OK.
This is how I get it.
So what I'm going to have my find command go in search all these empty files.
See if it can actually find so I'm going to type in the pack first.
So fight in slash term.
I'm telling my systems specifically go to slash.
Don't worry by looking anywhere else type af this is that because the file so and the file type is in.
Let's see if it can find it.
It found all three files that I have because when you create a file with a touch command it is empty
because touch command is used just for testing purposes that if you have write access to a certain directory
because you don't have write access you're going to get a message denied that you don't have write permission
to write anything in this directory.
It will let you create a file even by touch.
So that's what touches use for and that's why these files are empty.
They have nothing in them unless you use a vi editor going to the flop and actually write something
in there and then save it then you have something.
OK this is our discussion about flight.